Brandon Howard: Hey,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Brandon Howard: Have been better.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can't believe the story.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's been going on with you.
Brandon Howard: Well, um, last week I fell off from a
Brandon Howard: It was a drilling rig I fell about about 50 foot and landed on my back and I broke two ribs on my back. I don't want my backside and
Brandon Howard: That happened own say Thursday last Thursday.
Brandon Howard: And then after that Friday.
Brandon Howard: I was trying to get my Texas dime and somebody stole my identity. So I call to to get my stuff straightened out with our ass. And so I had to go to Midland yesterday and I was there. Almost all day and I finally got it straightened out but they they put a
Brandon Howard: Like a freeze on my account stuff because somebody was trying to steal my identity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How have you been dealing with
Brandon Howard: I mean it's it's really aggravating but it's over with. Now, I mean, my, my real is I can't really sleep because of it, but I'm doing the best I can with it. No.
Brandon Howard: So what type of medical
Care interventions that please
Brandon Howard: Well, we got my come out there. We have a
Brandon Howard: It's kind of like a like a portable hospital top bill on the job site just, you know, just for that that type of stuff and they they sent me home for a couple weeks.
Brandon Howard: To, you know, risk don't want on and which, you know, I can't take nothing because of where I take the Suboxone Sullivan. I'm taking ibuprofen and then I'll switch it out where the Advil
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wow, I can't believe
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This happened.
Very sad to hear
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How long are you out for
Brandon Howard: Three weeks. And when I go back in three weeks if everything is ok then they'll put me back on like lot duty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this is at the new job or the one you just where the previous job.
Brandon Howard: The previous job I still haven't got start the new one. Yeah, I'll be glad when I do, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what would you like to talk about today.
Brandon Howard: Well, like the exercises. She was having me to do.
Brandon Howard: My
Brandon Howard: I've been doing that every day and I got my wife into doing that with me because you know she has a lot of anxiety and whatnot and
Brandon Howard: For the most part, it seems like it's over. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have the worksheets that we can review it.
Brandon Howard: I'll have to find them real quick because I had him up on the wall, and she took a move up and down.
Brandon Howard: Hang on just a second.
Brandon Howard: Just be honest, I don't know where she's
Brandon Howard: It's the warning.
Brandon Howard: Like a
Brandon Howard: Abs observed triggering thoughts.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, so we have the physical ability cognitive vulnerability and then positive events this week. So the domain you were working on was cognitive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On vulnerability
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you said you observe trigger
Brandon Howard: Your not wanting to work, man.
Brandon Howard: Yeah. The the
Brandon Howard: Trigger thoughts was like, okay, for instance.
Brandon Howard: When, when I fail, you know, what was I gonna do to help provide you know since I was going to be out of work.
Brandon Howard: Yeah. So mom, which I'm getting paid, but not you know all the overtime and all that.
Brandon Howard: So that they help with
Brandon Howard: With helping with the, you know, like not having to stress over what I was going to do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What they do that happen again, we said last week, Thursday, right,
Brandon Howard: Yes, ma'am. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, did you observe any target baths.
Brandon Howard: I'm not really because, you know, I figured out that I was still going to get paid. They weren't really nothing to worry about.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the trigger thought was, how will I provide for my family.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now when did that come into play. What was your first thought happy.
Brandon Howard: Oh, I mean, my first thought was, holy crap.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know,
Brandon Howard: Nothing's like My back's broker, you know, anything like that but I'm
Brandon Howard: Obviously, that's what my first thought was, and then, you know, I don't know what am I going to do now, since I'm light up and I can't do nothing.
Brandon Howard: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In, in, then you got the information that it was still from be like workman's comp where you'd be paid while you recover. But you were also able to identify. Well, I'm getting paid, but I'm not gonna be able to something that was over.
Brandon Howard: Now,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That sounds like a puppy thought but then followed up with another trigger thought, you know, with providing because the underlying theme with that was just providing. And so you have that copy but then it's followed up with or not. I can't get over time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Brandon Howard: So I went from like about 1500 dollars a week down to like $500 a week.
Brandon Howard: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing a lot of overtime.
Brandon Howard: Oh, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any possibilities that not mean not having to do the overtime because of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, the physical state that you're in. Are there any possible
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Benefits of not having to work overtime.
Brandon Howard: Finally,
Brandon Howard: Get my risk that I
Brandon Howard: Really needed
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: solace about that balance, you know, in the last group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We talked about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Fears. What are the worst fears and how does it play a part in your everyday function, your thought process. And so based on what I know about you. I could guess that one fear might be making sure that you can provide for your family.
Brandon Howard: Absolutely by I guess one of the fears that I have right now is, is that little check on you know be enough to pay the rent, you know, and make sure we have enough to eat.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now, are you the only one that works in the home.
Brandon Howard: No mom. My wife does, but she don't like merely, you know, what am I
Brandon Howard: She only brings home like maybe 700 every two weeks.
Brandon Howard: Yeah.
Brandon Howard: And like I take care of the ran and you know the food and whatever else that will need through the week and she pays electric water gas know just this everyday necessities.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What the sessions were had about how the finances are the budget, we need to ship as a result of this temporary situation.
Brandon Howard: Well, I'll just show you
Brandon Howard: What am I, calendars and we wrote down everything, you know, we're going to have to pay like like from day to day to day and we just we budget budget did it.
Brandon Howard: And like the step that we didn't absolutely have to have, you know, if we had the money to buy it like Netflix and whatever, then, you know, we would get it but if not you know I want no big deal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it painful to talk
Brandon Howard: No, I'm in a in a recliner. And it's trying to move on me.
Brandon Howard: And the worst part. This morning, for some reason, I don't know if I got a bug or something. But I woke up this morning like badminton can really keep method down today and we're like, when I would go to throw up our tents up. So it's really, really edge tied it. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anticipation of the vomiting. So, you know, the physical health.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Presenting different changes that you need to make throughout your everyday function.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are some of these changes things that you think even offered this situation changes do you think you wouldn't set back to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The standard that you were doing before, or do you think, have you identified some of the benefits of some of the different changes you've made as a result of your
Brandon Howard: Help like me. I was pushing myself to work every, every hour that I could and I was working 80 plus hours a week, you know, at some point, you gotta have breast and you know do stuff for your sale, you know,
Brandon Howard: So yeah, I'm gonna cut down on that a lot. There's no way
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm curious to know where you're well rested before that fall
Brandon Howard: I had a I had all weekend off and then I went back Monday.
Brandon Howard: And you know, I work Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and then that's when that happened on Thursday morning.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: HOW MANY HOURS WORKING ON MONDAY, TUESDAY.
Brandon Howard: 12 hours a day.
Brandon Howard: But what what actually happened like I was up on the up on the second deck and they was persistent a swinger pop to put it on the on the drill bit to go further on down.
Brandon Howard: And when they swung it around a gust of wind caught it, and it pushed over towards me and it was either you know 1000 pound pop hit me or you know I had the job.
Wow.
Brandon Howard: Yeah, my job. It's, it's very dangerous.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In a little disheartening for know that you will avoid it back and you get a pay cut and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There should be more factors, put in place, considering the physical risk that you put on the line to go to your job.
Brandon Howard: Right handball day was one of the workers. He's a, he's my supervisor, you know, he was trying to get me to to get a lawyer and just so them because you know I didn't think it was fair either
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have a union representative in this line of work. I'm curious to know if you have any union everything
Brandon Howard: We do. But like all that stuff right now is under investigation and all that, you know, these are involved, of course, but I don't know what's going to come with that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would definitely follow up with your union rep and get a statement on about exactly what happened so that there can be. You shouldn't have to get the short end of the state because there was a mishap.
Brandon Howard: And like you said.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was a voice possible death by being, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Damage with this one, this pole or jump.
Brandon Howard: Yeah, I'd like to hear me. They, they probably won't have been nothing, anybody could do. Because, I mean, it's a bit. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I know that you're on the tail in closing out this chapter of disappointment and then some new chapter but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Still follow through on what's going on because for a long time, then identifying patterns of unfair treatment for working conditions, then not paying you the rate of what you've been working
Brandon Howard: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wouldn't, you know, while it's positive, that you're actually going to be transitioning to somewhere else, I would still hold this job accountable for what they're doing. Because it just doesn't seem like a safe environment working on
Brandon Howard: That it's not. It's really not you know there there's people out there doing cocaine and drinking beer on the job nicely. Yeah. You don't realize that you're putting others at risk dying.
Even know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would, I bet.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because whoever was on that that job. They could have put you at risk because of their intoxication. If
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They need to be mild
Brandon Howard: Well that's why the the union rep is involved right now and investigating it to see, you know what, what I'll actually went to to apply there.
Brandon Howard: And everybody that was there get drug tested and had to do a alcohol test.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I made sure that that came up throughout the week Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Brandon Howard: I'm
Brandon Howard: Just pretty, pretty much what I told you I mean that's been a you know about every day.
Brandon Howard: Just the fear of not having enough money to pay the rent, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What coping thoughts.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Brandon Howard: Well, one was, you know, at least I'm still getting paid something, you know,
Brandon Howard: And I guess where we made these these calendars and might have budget, you know, always had that, you know, have peace of mind. So I guess I guess that would be helpful.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, knowing that this wasn't the worst case scenario and then also the support of your wife and being able to strategize so that you can plan for this experiment. Now, did you notice at our events throughout this week.
Brandon Howard: Well, I mean, finally getting my mom.
Brandon Howard: My identity, you know all that figured out that was a positive outcome.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To work on. I don't know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That you can do some other ones.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Unless about this one because the physical definitely so. You told me that after the fall, you did take some proactive steps because there's onsite medical care at your job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. After that, were there any follow instructions which have to go to another doctor or take, you know, you mentioned the medication. Were there any other recommendations after meeting with that doctor
Brandon Howard: I'm just to just to put like a switch it out with he and I asked, and I gotta go back in three weeks just to make sure you know it's still in them. What are
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You eating.
Brandon Howard: It's, it's been good. Up until the day like like pathology. I'm not feeling so hot. Like, I think it's just like a little virus or something.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You long we'll do a 30 minute session just considering the state that you're in with the virus and then and see sometimes when you move you take a deep breath. So I just thank you for still showing up, despite everything,
Brandon Howard: You had
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whoa.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And interesting start to January.
Brandon Howard: You ain't kidding.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you been getting enough rest.
Brandon Howard: Yeah, I mean actually today what what little time that I've had, you know, had to get up man, throw up. I been asleep, mostly all day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you said that your wife. She also has some anxiety, but you share that wanted to find a way to get her some therapeutic intervention as well. So tell me how you got her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Involved with this activity.
Brandon Howard: Well, like I said, we, we made those charts and like every morning before she would leave I had him up on the wall and you know before both of us would leave way. We don't like go through each one every day and she I mean she seemed like it helps, but she I think she needs.
Brandon Howard: Some type of medication. I'm not really sure because she's got a lot anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How does
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It impact you.
Brandon Howard: Well, like normally if I if I leave to go to the store and she hear sirens outside or something you know she's color you okay, are you okay there was a year, you know, just like situations like that. It's a
Brandon Howard: Big it's kind of
Brandon Howard: What would you say
Brandon Howard: Times. It's kind of annoying when you know like I'm trying to do something extra work like go to the grocery store and shop, but I try to try to understand, but sometimes it's hard to understand.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Push and pull of wanting to understand, but at the same time, wanting the ability to go about your day without having these concerns and added stress.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now when did you first identify that she would possibly have.
Brandon Howard: Or wow let's say well, like when when we moved from Tennessee down to here in New Mexico, like
Brandon Howard: It did when we would get out to go somewhere and I was driving and like they would be a cop.
Brandon Howard: Way out of the way. You know that she would say, oh, you better be careful. Be careful don't get pulled over, you know, just things like that. And I just got the notice and more and more and more, you know, if it went from something small to something be
Brandon Howard: Intensified yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To any of her behaviors you find yourself adapting or or displaying some of those same behaviors that she
Brandon Howard: Yeah, like when when Mike say I'm going to the store and like the firing and stance and she's calling just tell her you know just become don't worry I'm over here to store that it wasn't me just, you know, thanks for you were
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Saying, yeah.
Yeah.
Brandon Howard: Cuz i mean it's it's a daily. It's a daily thing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But since that principle paranoia for you. Does that create any invited for you where it was on the other foot. If she were now. Do you have those thoughts. Well,
Brandon Howard: I wanna, I wanna thank so just like I'm
Brandon Howard: Like I just don't want to help her so bad. But, you know, it really does no good for me to say anything because regardless it that paranoia and anxiety anxious is always going to be there.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it possible that the best way to help with the anxiety is to speak to her about the need for the help and and how it affects the relationship
Brandon Howard: I have talked her about that. And that's why you know she's wanting to find a counselor.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where she asked me.
Brandon Howard: Whoa, she she found a couple, but, uh, they wanted like $200 up Brian and then yeah, like the first visit it was gonna be like the 200 up front and then like another hundred 50 visit
Brandon Howard: You know, that's crazy with her having health insurance and oh
Yeah.
Brandon Howard: So we're still trying to, you know, even if she's got to actually go somewhere, you know, would still be okay.
Brandon Howard: So we're just still, you know, I'm trying to look around and ban something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what we do know is that your wife's anxiety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: affects her in the sense that there's this paranoia that something's going to happen to you. Yeah. Whenever you go out if there's anything that indicates, you could possibly be in danger. She calls you.
Brandon Howard: Absolutely.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One of the ways is this her anxiety show itself.
Brandon Howard: Um, okay, like when her daughter goes to like whether dad or, you know, terror cousins or whatever. And if you know sarah calls and she don't pick up right away automatically there's she's in some kind of trouble are in danger, you know,
Brandon Howard: Whatever could possibly like go wrong. That's why her brain always register stay, you know, even if it happens or not. Yeah. That's every day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is there any moments where times it doesn't present itself.
Brandon Howard: Not really.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It sounds intense and I agree with that level of intensity, if it is exactly how you typically then she could definitely benefit from ongoing their email address where this rep comes from
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so when you want to be careful, is because she doesn't have any additional support that. Now you're becoming right there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so I asked, do you see any of her behaviors on you Leary like are you showing those because then that will be a key indicator that some a person comes in her anxiety is now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Coming out through you, but it seems as though you've been able to do something to separate her inviting from your mental state so that you can support her well not compromising your mental stability and not also becoming
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How did you do that.
Brandon Howard: I'm like, I'm not really sure, because I'm and I'm like, mentally, I'm pretty I'm pretty strong mentally, but I'm just nine with my problems on. Yes.
Brandon Howard: But with somebody else's I'm more than happy, you know, to help and try to figure out a solution, but at the same time I try to do the same for myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you see any connection between how some experiences from your childhood.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Might have created this person today that able to, like you said, Help other people with their situation.
Brandon Howard: I mean, yeah, because I've had a had a horrible childhood, you know, my mom. Mom and Dad. They used to be this and everything else. And like I can remember around when I was five.
Brandon Howard: My sister was three years old or may so she was a like if we didn't go out and work in the tobacco fields and stuff. We didn't get to eat that you don't say like we had to. We had to pay for our rise and I guess you could say.
Brandon Howard: So I guess that's what made me, you know, a strong person.
Brandon Howard: And I want to help with other people's issues.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then also, that work ethic, where it almost seems as though you're accustomed to working hard, because sometimes I'm watching the movie will say that you work 12 hours.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: House.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Every day someone like I mean I go if I were eight eight and a half hours. I'm like, Oh, no, this is too much. You know, in a day.
Brandon Howard: Oh my calm.
Brandon Howard: I've always dealt with with like
Brandon Howard: The back I got they said that I had ADHD to like some kind of stand and I just don't ever get tired. I can go to work and you know
Brandon Howard: I can come home and work some more. And I just like my body feels tired, but my mind like you gotta keep going, keep going. And I mean it gets it gets really tough. At times, you know, not being able to sleep, and it's just it's locked out to deal with.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You
Brandon Howard: Know you continue to come to therapy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we we unpack and we find different connections between experiences. You can also then the fellas skills. We can shift things from childhood and its impact and see how we can tailor it to the present day because
Brandon Howard: There's a lot of connections we can identify
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or my childhood experiences. And so it wouldn't make sense that to this day. You work long hours to this thing you think about providing and work almost equates to existence because as a child. If you didn't work. You didn't eat.
Brandon Howard: That
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As a child, not know where their meal is going to come from and let alone that they're responsible to make sure they get that meal that's everyday existence.
Brandon Howard: Yeah, but you know it's same time being that young, we shouldn't have never had to deal with a thing like that.
Brandon Howard: We should never had to worry about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not at all, but because that was your experience. Now, to this day, and that would have contributed to your ADHD because I'm a child, you have to keep going. You had to be alert to avoid the next BT
Brandon Howard: Yeah. Well, that's true. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To look and see the difference finds like oh, getting upset. She's been upset, how do I avoid this data being in that state of always going having your amygdala always being exposed to the fight or flight.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, that's how you operate.
Brandon Howard: And it's like, you know, then we always had, like, just say was always walking on eggshells afraid, you know, or if we do this is going to trigger that you know like
Brandon Howard: I can, I can see where you're coming from, like, the stuff from my childhood. It plays a big part in to where I am today.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even more so there's probably experiences that you like.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That definitely
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the same hyper vigilant insane always fright. So when I talked about the middle of night talk about fight, flight, or freeze it almost seems like she always freezing. She's always in shops and going from edge something's going to happen.
Brandon Howard: Well, like she didn't have a childhood as bad as mine, but you know she her dad always would beat her and her sister, and then
Brandon Howard: You know she she got raped when she was 16 and so she's got the kid now and then she got out of that awful, you know, place and got married to another dirt and in like a red chakra out and Vader and this and I you know I guess that's the reason why she's always in a panic.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe for you because now she has a dime a dozen of us that loves it when people are conditioned to be in some situations when they finally have a situation is working well, they're in fear of when is it going to be bad.
Brandon Howard: Yeah.
Brandon Howard: I can say that. And I mean, that's probably like why she has a lot of anxiety and, you know, anxiety,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: SHE'S WAITING she's waiting for all those past experiences, she's waiting for the cycle to continue to repeat itself. And so every day. It's almost like she's anticipating that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, um, we're at the 30 minute mark, you know, let me know if you want to continue, some more, or if this is a good stopping point. I'm sitting. What are you
Brandon Howard: Right now.
Brandon Howard: Oh, let's let's stop right here okay cuz because I think I'm besides the bathroom.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: See your eyes.
Brandon Howard: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reach out to me, hopefully I'll see you on Monday. And we'll, we'll find out where we can meet again for individual to process or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Make some more committee. Okay.
Brandon Howard: Absolutely.
All right.
Brandon Howard: Thank you.